In our example programs we've declared are variables within the curly braces of the main function these
variables are called local variables because their scope or visibility is limited to the statements
in the main function that follow the declaration of the variable.
This is generally what you want to do.
However sometimes you see variables declared outside of any function.
These variables are called global variables and they can be accessed from any part of your program.
Unlike local variables global variables are automatically initialized to 0.
We'll talk more about scope and visibility as the course progresses.
However I wanted to introduce you to this concept here since there is a lot of code out there aimed
at getting C++ programmers that uses global variables in their examples.
Global variables have their place but they also come with some potential problems.
Since global variables could be accessed by any part of the program this means that can potentially
be changed from any part of the program.
So if you've got a program that's thousands of lines of code this can make finding errors and debugging
more difficult.
Let me show you the example of using global variables in case you see code like this out there as you
study C++.
I'm in the code like ID and you can see that I've declared a variable called age and age is declared
right here and it's within the scope of main.
What that means is that this is a local variable.
In other words it's local to this function so I can use age within this function.
So for example here I'm using age and the compiler is going to say OK which age are we talking about.
And is going to find the age right here so if I run this it will replace age with 18.
This is the way we're going to program in this course.
However you may see code out there that looks a little bit different.
Let me show you how that works.
You may see code out there where this is not declared inside of main.
Instead it's declared outside of main.
This makes age a global variable which means that it can be accessed from anywhere in the program.
So now what happens when the compiler sees age here.
First it looks locally to see if it has a declaration of age.
In this case it does not.
Then it looks globally to see if H has been declared at the global level.
It has it finds it right here and now it prints out a teen.
OK so that's an example of a global variable.
It's the concept again is pretty straightforward and it's possible to have both global variables and
local variables so I could do something like this.
I could say it age is 16 and notice that now I have two variables named age.
I've got one that's local and one that's global.
When the compiler sees the use of age in the output statement first it looks locally.
It looks right here it finds this age and it's going to use 16 here.
It will not use this one so this one shadows the outer global variable.
That's really all there is to global variables.
Lots of times you'll see code as I mentioned where you won't see this here at all and everything is
global.
They're OK for teaching purposes but it's really not a good practice to start using global variables
all of your code.